Date: 20th January 1993
Author: Dave Hudson <dave@humbug.demon.co.uk>
Title: Readme notes for the joystick device server.

1.0 Introduction

The joystick device server is designed to support standard IBM PC type
joystick ports, as provided by many multi-I/O devices, multi-I/O adaptor
cards and sound cards.

Throughout this readme file joystick is taken to mean any device which is
designed to plug into a PC joystick port - this could mean joysticks, game
pads, steering wheels, etc.


2.0 Copyright

The VSTa joystick device server was written by Dave Hudson
<dave@humbug.demon.co.uk>.  The following notice applies to all files
in this distribution:

    Copyright (C) 1994 David John Hudson

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option)
    any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

This is in line with the kernel of the VSTa system.


3.0 Technical description

The PC's joystick ports allow up to 4 buttons (switches) and 4 analogue
input channels to be connected at once.  I have identified a couple of
different connection types, both based around a 15 pin D connector.  On the
original joystick/games cards there were usually 2 connectors with identical
signal pinouts to support 2 joysticks (2 buttons and 2 analogue channels
each).  On most recent systems and adaptor boards however there is only one
connector.  These single connector systems either only support a single
joystick device (and hence only 2 buttons and 2 analogue channels) or
provide extra signals on otherwise unused pins of the interface connector
(to give 4 button and 4 analogue channel support).  Some newer joysticks use
these extra connections to provide additional features such as 4 buttons or
a throttle control, etc.  In order to use 2 joysticks on a single "enhanced"
connector there are a number of Y splitter cables available which provide 2
standard (2 button/2 analogue) connections.

The PC's implementation of the analogue connections leaves rather a lot to
be desired.  Instead of using a standard A-D converter device to perform the
measurement of the voltages established by the joystick, the PC designers
used a circuit based on 555 timer derivative devices.  These are configured
in such a way as to produce a pulse after a time period (approximately)
proportional to voltage being supplied by the joystcick.  This pulse
generation is initiated by triggering the "555" timer device.  In order to
determine the size of this pulse (and hence the joystick position) it is
necessary to use the PC's high resolution timer (ticks at 1.19 MHz) to time
the pulses from the "555" timer.  Fortunately all of the analogue channels
can be measured in parallel, however analysis of the the port circuits
suggests that the maximum pulse lengths can be in the region of 10 ms!
During testing, I have typically measured maximum pulse lengths of about
5ms.

Unfortunately, under VSTa the device server can be interrupted so I've tried
to make the code detect the fact that it's timings may not be accurate (a
lot might want to happen if you're hanging around for 5 ms).  When values
are read back from the server it's always going to be a good idea to check
that timeouts haven't occurred :-(

When the server starts, it attempts to determine the number of analogue
channels that are connected to anything, but it always assumes that the full
4 buttons are available.  Any channel which is not found at startup will
return "JS_NONE" as a return value.

The server only allows a single connection to be established at any one
time.  I hope that this won't cause any problems :-)

If you do find any problems when using the joystick server, please contact
me!


		Regards,

		Dave Hudson
		dave@humbug.demon.co.uk
